# LMS Software Technical Specification
## Version: 1.0
## Written by - Sairam Mangeshkar

LMS software will be capable of storing and retrieving the following things:

1. Question Papers:
   - There are three types of Question papers: Anna University Question Papers (End Semester Exam), IAT (Internal Assessment Test), Assignment Question Papers.
   - These will be uploaded either as a Word or as a PDF.
   - Each question paper will be linked to a subject + exam name.

2. Notes:
   - Notes are just PDFs / Word files that can be uploaded and retrieved.
   - They are linked to a subject.
   - There maybe multiple notes per subject.
   - Currently the possible Regulation values are: AU-21, AU-25 as of now.


## File Uploading process:
   - A basic constraint of files shall have the right mime type (application/pdf, application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document, application/msword).
   - The file must be non-empty (ie content size != 0)
   - De-duplication of Notes/Question Paper files is currently out of scope.
   - File is first uploaded, and then tagged with subjects and (exam name in case of Question Paper).
   - No processing of files (other than basic checks) are planned as of now.
   - Files can ONLY be uploaded by Users who have "UPLOAD_FILES" permission.

## File Retrieving Process:
   - In the dashboard, there'll be two sections:  
      - 1. Notes
      - 2. Question paper

### a. Notes Retrieving Process:
   - On navigating to this page, the backend will load a paginated view (infinite scroll on Mobile?).
   - Pagination order is based on the created_at (use customizable sort order) descending with selectable max_page_size (`ui:dropdownmenu`)
   - There shall be a search bar and a filter button beside the search bar.
   - Search bar shall search the notes by Title.
   - Filter shall include Semester, Year and Subject Name

### b. Question Paper Retrieving Process;
    - On navigating to this page, the backend will load a paginated view.
    - There shall be a search bar and a filter button beside the search bar.
    - Search bar shall search the question paper by Exam Name, Exam Code, Subject Name or Subject Code
    - Filtering options include but not limited to: Regulation, ExamCode, SubjectCode `ui:dropdownmenu`

## Authentication:
    - A simple password based authentication with username would suffice.
    - A dashboard for creating and managing users and their permissions.
    - There exists exactly one permission as of now (UPLOAD_FILES).
    - Files CAN be downloaded and accessed without authentication.
    - Files CANNOT be uploaded without (UPLOAD_FILES) permission. The user must be authenticated.
    - Use JWT based token system with bcrypt hashing.

## Subjects, Exams Creation:
    - A dashboard page shall be created for creation of subjects.
    - It is suggested to normalize the text depending on its type.
    - Subject creation is as follows:
       - Subject Name string
       - Subject Code string
       - Semester (1-8) string
       - Year (1-4) string

## Normalization:
    - Subject Name = Title Case (eg: Computer Science)
    - Exam Code = 
        - Assignment QP = `(AM|ND)\d{4}-A(\d+)`
        - IAT QP = `(AM|ND)\d{4}-(IAT\d+)`
        - End Semester QP = `(AM|ND)\d{4}`
    - Exam Name = 
        - Assignment QP = `(AM|ND)\d{4} Assignment\d+`
        - IAT QP = `(AM|ND)\d{4} IAT\d+`
        - End Semester QP = `(April May | November December) \d{4}`
        - Exam Name is expanded from Exam Code.
        - AM = April May, ND = November December.
        - The groups are used for expanding the Exam Code to Exam Name
        

## Database Design

1. User
   - id uuid
   - username string
   - encrypted_pass string
   - permissions string[]
   - created_at datetime
   - updated_at datetime

2. Subject
   - id uuid
   - code string `ui:textinput`
   - long_name string `ui:textinput`
   - short_name string `ui:textinput`
   - year string `ui:numberinput`
   - semester string `ui:numberinput`
   - regulation string `ui:textinput`
   - created_at datetime
   - updated_at datetime

3. Exam
   - id uuid
   - code string @unique
   - name? string `ui:textinput` @default(autogenerated from code - ref: Normalization)
   - type enum [ENDSEM, IAT, ASGT]
   - created_at datetime
   - updated_at datetime

4. Notes:
   - id uuid
   - title string `ui:textinput`
   - subject_id uuid `ui:dropdownmenu`
   - unit? string (-1 = all units)
   - storage_path string
   - created_at datetime
   - updated_at datetime
   - deleted_at datetime? `soft-delete date`

5. QuestionPaper:
   - id uuid
   - subject_id uuid `ui:dropdownmenu`
   - exam_id uuid `ui:dropdownmenu`
   - storage_path string
   - created_at datetime
   - updated_at datetime
   - deleted_at datetime? `soft-delete date`



## Design Language

- Use a simple and intuitive design.
- The design shall easily parsable through machine [via scrapping].
- Use `tailwindcss` for managing the colors and styles.

### Colors
- The following colors are included:
  - --primary: #23388D
  - --secondary: #FCFCFC
  - --text: #040404
  - --accent: #7B87BA
- Ensure that all properties in CSS are clearly defined and customizable.
- Border radius - 8px

### Font
Roboto / Inter
sans-serif

### Animations
- Best to avoid animations, and in cases where animations are needed, use minimalistic animations.
- Use `framer-motion` for animation handling.


## Backend
- tRPC with BetterAuth is recommended
- Use Prisma for managing the Postgres Database.
- Cloudflare R2 URL will be provided as the implementation.


## Guidelines for LLMs

- Follow clearly defined patterns.
- Do not over comment, if you find the need for a long comment (about 10+ words), use AskUserQuestion or a relevant tool and raise questions.
- Stay within this designed document.
- Do not make any assumptions, use AskUserQuestion and raise your questions.
- Ensure all constants stay in a constants file.


